hey this is pressure Locker this puzzle
has been shared with the claim that only
a genius could solve it it has gone
viral on Facebook and the internet
generating millions of views as people
have debated what the correct answer
should be in this video I'm going to
present what many people believe to be
the correct answer can you figure it out
give it a try before watching the rest
of the video so most people believe the
correct answer is 36 this is found by
taking the product of the sum of the
digits in each multiplication when
multiplying two numbers a a and a a you
obtain the answer by taking the sum of
the digits in each multiplication and
then multiplying that together for
example to do 11 times 11 we would take
the quantity 1 plus 1 and multiply it by
the quantity 1 plus 1 this equals 2
times 2 which gets to 4 as given in the
puzzle
similarly 22 times 22 the answer can be
found by taking 2 plus 2 times the
quantity 2 plus 2 this equals 4 times 4
which equals 16 as given in the puzzle
this would mean 33 times 33 would equal
3 plus 3 times the quantity 3 plus 3
this equals 6 times 6 which is 36 so
most people believe this is the correct
answer however there are people who
think the answer should be 18 they
believe the procedure to get the answer
is to take the sum of the digits in the
product of the regular multiplication
for example 11 times 11 is equal to 121
the answer can be obtained by taking one
plus two plus one which is four
similarly twenty-two times 22 is equal
to 484 the answer can be found by taking
the sum of the digits in the product
which is 4 plus 8 plus 4 which is 16
this would mean 33 times 33 is equal to
1089 the answer can be found by taking
the sum of the digits 1 0 8 and 9 which
gets to the answer of 18 so we have two
different answers we have 36 and 18 and
both methods seem valid so is there any
way to reconcile these two different
approaches to the problem in fact there
is a way to justify the answer of 36
under the sum of the digits in the
product let's see how that works so we
start out with 11 times 11 we can expand
each term in the multiplication to write
this as 10 plus 1 times 10 plus 1 if we
expand out this product we get 1 times
100 plus 2 times 10 plus 1 times 1 this
gets us to the familiar answer of 121
and if we take the sum of the digits we
get 1 plus 2 plus 1 which is 4 there's
an alternate way that we could visualize
what's going on here we could do this by
multiplying by lines
let's do 11 times 11 for the first
number 11 will draw one line and then
we'll leave some space and we'll draw
another line for the other 11 we'll draw
lines in the other direction leaving
spaces between the two ones we can now
get to the answer by counting the number
of vertically aligned intersections on
the far right we have one intersection
this will be one
in the center we have two intersections
this will be to finally on far left we
have one intersection which makes for
one so we can copy these numbers and we
get to our familiar answer of 121 now we
can add up the digits any answer to get
1 plus 2 plus 1 which equals 4 so
there's another interpretation that
we've just shown is valid when we're
summing up the digits of the product
what we're really doing is we're
counting the number of dots in this
diagram so here we have exactly 4 dots
in our diagram and that corresponds to
adding up 1 plus 2 plus 1 so let's
continue this pattern so we'll start out
algebraically with 22 times 22 we can
rewrite this as 20 plus 2 times 20 plus
2 we can expand this out to get 4 times
100 plus 8 times 10 plus 4 times 1 this
is equal to our answer of 484 and the
sum of the digits is equal to 16 so now
let's look at the same problem visually
we'll do 22 times 22 by multiplying by
lines so for the first 22 we draw two
lines for the 20 we'll leave some space
and draw two lines for the two for the
other number we do the same thing but
draw lines in the other direction well
now get to the answer by Counting the
number of intersections that are
vertically aligned so we'll start with
the group of intersections on the far
right there are four intersections here
in the center we have one group of four
and another group of four this makes for
a total of eight intersections on the
far left we have four intersections so
copying these numbers we get to our
familiar answer of 484 and if we add up
the digits in our answer 4 plus 8 plus 4
we get 16
which once again is the number of dots
in our diagram so now let's apply the
procedure to 33 times 33 well first
consider an algebraic procedure we have
30 plus 3 times 30 plus 3 will expand
this out we get 9 times 100 plus 18
times 10 plus 9 times 1 so we could
write our answer as 918 tens and nine
ones and if we were to add up the digits
in this product we would get 9 plus 18
plus 9 which is 36 so this is not how we
would typically write this answer if you
put 33 times 33 in the calculator you
would not get 9 18 and 9 although this
is a valid representation of 33 times 33
what we do is in the decimal system we
never have any value be more than 9 in
our placeholders so the problem is this
18 times 10 we need to split that up
into 10 times 10 plus 8 times 10 now 10
times 10 is equal to 100 so that adds
one more into our hundreds place so we
have 10 hundreds plus 8 tens and then
nine ones now 10 hundreds is also equal
to one thousand so our final answer is 1
times 1000 plus 0 hundreds plus 8 tens
plus 9 ones so this is the more familiar
way that we would write out 33 times 33
which is 1089 but if we were to ignore
this carryover rule you could see this
representation is a valid way to
represent 33 times 33 and if we did add
up to some of the digits in this product
we would get to the answer of 36 one
more way to illustrate this is by doing
the visual multiplication so we'll draw
three lines for the 30 we'll leave some
space and draw three more lines for the
units 3
for the other number we draw the lines
in the other direction again leaving
some space between the tens and the ones
values so on the far right we count the
number of intersections we have nine
intersections here in the center we have
two groups of nine this makes four total
of 18 intersections and on the far left
we have nine intersections so we have
our answer of 9 18 9 and we know this
represents 9 times 100 plus 18 times 10
plus 9 times 1 we could go ahead and do
the carry over process and we would get
to the answer of 1089 however if we just
want to count the number of dots in this
diagram we would get to the answer that
there are 9 plus 18 plus 9 which is 36
dots in this diagram so that could be a
valid way of counting the sum of the
digits in the product if we don't take
carryover and we just count the number
of dots in each column so what this
means is we'll go over our procedure so
if we count the sum of the digits in the
product for 11 times 11 and 22 times 22
we do get 4 and 16 as in the puzzle and
finally we then need to figure out what
33 times 33 is we could validly write
this as 9 18 + 9 as long as we don't
have any carryover and we understand
where the placeholders represent so this
would get us to an answer of 36 and this
would exactly match the procedure that
we use to get the product of the sum of
the digits if you go through a time a
plus a times a plus a that's exactly
what we're doing when we're doing the
sum of the digits in the product with no
carryover and it's the same procedure
that we're using to count the number of
the dots in our diagram for visual
multiplication so it would seem that 36
is the answer to this puzzle did you get
to 36
thanks for watching this video please
subscribe to my channel I make videos on
math and game theory you can catch me on
my blog mind your decisions which you
can follow on Facebook Google+ and
patreon you can catch me on social media
at pressure Locker and if you're like
this video please check out my books
there links in the video description